Once upon a time a young man named Aladdin lived in the kingdom of Agrabah. He was an orphan and a thief, a wanted criminal.
Princess Jasmine lived in the palace and she disguised herself as a pauper to move about the city of Agrabah. Here she met Aladdin and he fell in love with her. But he knew she was beyond his reach.
Jafar was the Sultan's Vizier and he yearned to replace him. He knew of a mysterious cave with a magic lamp with a Genie trapped within, and he tricked Aladdin into getting the lamp for him. Little did he know that Aladdin would make a friend out of the Genie and escape, then make a wish to become a prince to win Jasmine's heart. He also stole a magic carpet which he impressed Jasmine with. However, Jasmine recognised him from the streets of Agrabah. He lied, claiming that he was pretending to be poor, the same as her.
Genie was not happy with Aladdin for lying to Jasmine. This created a rift between them, and the Genie realised that Aladdin was nothing but a thief and a liar.
Jafar took advantage of their fight to steal the Genie and his lamp. Then he wished to become the Sultan. This is where the situation became dire.
Jasmine found out that Aladdin was never a prince after all. Her father, the Sultan realised that Jafar was not a good Vizier after all. But it was too late. Jafar made an attempt on Aladdin's life, and the Genie felt obligated to save him, so he used up Aladdin's second wish. Then Jafar made his second wish to become the most powerful magician, and he used his magic to humiliate the SUltan and Aladdin, and to make Jasmine his slave.
Aladdin realised Jafar's lust for power was making him crazy, so he called Jafar a coward for using the Genie's powers to increase his own, and a weak person at the service of the Genie.
Angered, Jafar wished to become an all-powerful genie. The Genie complied, and trapped him inside a lamp and threw him into the mysterious cave. 
Then Aladdin made a wish to free Genie, and Sultan accepted him as a suitor for Jasmine if she liked him well enough. AND THEY ALL LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER.
Except Jafar. He was very upset. Not that anyone cares.